# Meta
[meta]: #meta
- Name: Lifecycle analtics
- Start Date: 12-13-2019
- CNB Pull Request: (leave blank)
- CNB Issue: (leave blank)
- Supersedes: (put "N/A" unless this replaces an existing RFC, then link to that RFC)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

As a growing ecosystem, the CNB project should have baseline quantitative data about useage alongside the more qualitative data derived from WG discussion, slack, watercools, PRs, issues, etc. This RFC proposes the generation, collection, and aggregation of high level usage data to benefit the ecosystem and all users.

As the heart of any platform, the lifecycle stands to reason as the core source for this data. If the lifecycle emits data, it makes sense for platforms to collect that data. `pack`, for example, could listen for data generated by the lifecycle. In the open source ecosystem, such data could be aggregated and stored as a community resource. In a hosted platform, lifecycle data would serve as a valuable indicator of system health, user preferences, etc.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

- Buildpacks and stack creators would like to understand how their CNBs are being used
- Pack and lifecycle maintainers would like to understand how features are being used and whether they are working as intended
- Platform maintainers would like to understand the behavior of users on their systems

At the moment, the data we use to make decisions is essentially gut feeling. The above understanding can be better achieved through a combination of qualitative data (conversations, issues filed, user feedback, etc) and quantitative data (which we do not currently collect).

# What it is
[what-it-is]: #what-it-is

This provides a high level overview of the feature.

- Define any new terminology.
- Define the target persona: buildpack author, buildpack user, platform operator, platform implementor, and/or project contributor.
- Explaining the feature largely in terms of examples.
- If applicable, provide sample error messages, deprecation warnings, or migration guidance.
- If applicable, describe the differences between teaching this to existing users and new users.

# How it Works
[how-it-works]: #how-it-works

This is the technical portion of the RFC, where you explain the design in sufficient detail.

The section should return to the examples given in the previous section, and explain more fully how the detailed proposal makes those examples work.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Why should we *not* do this?

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

- What other designs have been considered?
- Why is this proposal the best?
- What is the impact of not doing this?

# Prior Art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

Discuss prior art, both the good and bad.

# Unresolved Questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- What parts of the design do you expect to be resolved before this gets merged?
- What parts of the design do you expect to be resolved through implementation of the feature?
- What related issues do you consider out of scope for this RFC that could be addressed in the future independently of the solution that comes out of this RFC?
